Burning Hands
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
As you hold your hands with thumbs touching and fingers
spread, a thin sheet of flames shoots forth from your
outstretched fingertips. Each creature in a 15-foot cone
must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes
3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage
on a successful one.
The fire ignites any flammable objects in the area that
aren’t being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

Darkness
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (bat fur and a drop of pitch or
piece of coal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Magical darkness spreads from a point you choose
within range to fill a 15-foot-radius sphere for the
duration. The darkness spreads around corners. A
creature with darkvision can’t see through this darkness,
and nonmagical light can’t illuminate it.
If the point you choose is on an object you are holding
or one that isn’t being worn or carried, the darkness
emanates from the object and moves with it. Completely
covering the source of the darkness with an opaque
object, such as a bowl or a helm, blocks the darkness.
If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of light
created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell that
created the light is dispelled.


Detect Magic
1st-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the presence of magic within
30 feet of you. If you sense magic in this way, you can use
your action to see a faint aura around any visible creature
or object in the area that bears magic, and you learn its
school of magic, if any.
The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked
by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of
lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

Dispel Magic
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature, object, or magical effect within
range. Any spell of 3rd level or lower on the target ends.
For each spell of 4th level or higher on the target, make
an ability check using your spellcasting ability. The DC
equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a successful check, the
spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, you automatically end the
effects of a spell on the target if the spell’s level is equal to
or less than the level of the spell slot you used.

Fireball
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tiny ball of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A bright streak flashes from your pointing finger to a
point you choose within range and then blossoms with
a low roar into an explosion of flame. Each creature
in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must
make a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 8d6 fire
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
The fire spreads around corners. It ignites flammable
objects in the area that aren’t being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.

Fire Bolt
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or object within
range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a
hit, the target takes 1d10 fire damage. A flammable object
hit by this spell ignites if it isn’t being worn or carried.
This spell’s damage increases by 1d10 when you reach
5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10), and 17th level (4d10).

Haste
3rd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shaving of licorice root)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a willing creature that you can see within range.
Until the spell ends, the target’s speed is doubled, it gains
a +2 bonus to AC, it has advantage on Dexterity saving
throws, and it gains an additional action on each of its
turns. That action can be used only to take the Attack
(one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use
an Object action.
When the spell ends, the target can’t move or take
actions until after its next turn, as a wave of lethargy
sweeps over it.

Identify
1st-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pearl worth at least 100 gp and
an owl feather)
Duration: Instantaneous
You choose one object that you must touch throughout
the casting of the spell. If it is a magic item or some other
magic-imbued object, you learn its properties and how to
use them, whether it requires attunement to use, and how
many charges it has, if any. You learn whether any spells
are affecting the item and what they are. If the item was
created by a spell, you learn which spell created it.
If you instead touch a creature throughout the casting,
you learn what spells, if any, are currently affecting it.

Invisibility
2nd-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an eyelash encased in gum arabic)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A creature you touch becomes invisible until the spell
ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is
invisible as long as it is on the target’s person. The spell
ends for a target that attacks or casts a spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.

Light
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, M (a firefly or phosphorescent moss)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch one object that is no larger than 10 feet in any
dimension. Until the spell ends, the object sheds bright
light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional
20 feet. The light can be colored as you like. Completely
covering the object with something opaque blocks the
light. The spell ends if you cast it again or dismiss it as
an action.
If you target an object held or worn by a hostile
creature, that creature must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw to avoid the spell.

Mage Armor
1st-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a piece of cured leather)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature who isn’t wearing armor,
and a protective magical force surrounds it until the spell
ends. The target’s base AC becomes 13 + its Dexterity
modifier. The spell ends if the target dons armor or if you
dismiss the spell as an action.

Mage Hand
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose
within range. The hand lasts for the duration or until
you dismiss it as an action. The hand vanishes if it is
ever more than 30 feet away from you or if you cast this
spell again.
You can use your action to control the hand. You can
use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked
door or container, stow or retrieve an item from an open
container, or pour the contents out of a vial. You can
move the hand up to 30 feet each time you use it.
The hand can’t attack, activate magic items, or carry
more than 10 pounds.

Magic Missile
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create three glowing darts of magical force. Each
dart hits a creature of your choice that you can see within
range. A dart deals 1d4 + 1 force damage to its target.
The darts all strike simultaneously, and you can direct
them to hit one creature or several.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the spell creates one
more dart for each slot level above 1st.

Misty Step
2nd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up to 30
feet to an unoccupied space that you can see.

Prestidigitation
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Up to 1 hour
This spell is a minor magical trick that novice
spellcasters use for practice. You create one of the
following magical effects within range:
• You create an instantaneous, harmless sensory effect,
such as a shower of sparks, a puff of wind, faint musical
notes, or an odd odor.
• You instantaneously light or snuff out a candle, a torch,
or a small campfire.
• You instantaneously clean or soil an object no larger
than 1 cubic foot.
• You chill, warm, or flavor up to 1 cubic foot of nonliving
material for 1 hour.
• You make a color, a small mark, or a symbol appear on
an object or a surface for 1 hour.
• You create a nonmagical trinket or an illusory image
that can fit in your hand and that lasts until the end of
your next turn.
If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to
three of its non-instantaneous effects active at a time, and
you can dismiss such an effect as an action.

Ray of Frost
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, it takes 1d8 cold damage,
and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of your
next turn.
The spell’s damage increases by 1d8 when you reach
5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

Shatter
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a chip of mica)
Duration: Instantaneous
A sudden loud ringing noise, painfully intense, erupts
from a point of your choice within range. Each creature
in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must
make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes 3d8
thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much damage
on a successful one. A creature made of inorganic
material such as stone, crystal, or metal has disadvantage
on this saving throw.
A nonmagical object that isn’t being worn or carried
also takes the damage if it’s in the spell’s area.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 2nd.

Sleep
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of fine sand, rose petals,
or a cricket)
Duration: 1 minute
This spell sends creatures into a magical slumber. Roll
5d8; the total is how many hit points of creatures this
spell can affect. Creatures within 20 feet of a point you
choose within range are affected in ascending order of
their current hit points (ignoring unconscious creatures).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest current
hit points, each creature affected by this spell falls
unconscious until the spell ends, the sleeper takes
damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the
sleeper awake. Subtract each creature’s hit points from
the total before moving on to the creature with the next
lowest hit points. A creature’s hit points must be equal
to or less than the remaining total for that creature to
be affected.
Undead and creatures immune to being charmed aren’t
affected by this spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional 2d8 for
each slot level above 1st.

Thaumaturgy
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Up to 1 minute
You manifest a minor wonder, a sign of supernatural
power, within range. You create one of the following
magical effects within range:
• Your voice booms up to three times as loud as normal
for 1 minute.
• You cause flames to flicker, brighten, dim, or change
color for 1 minute.
• You cause harmless tremors in the ground
for 1 minute.
• You create an instantaneous sound that originates from
a point of your choice within range, such as a rumble of
thunder, the cry of a raven, or ominous whispers.
• You instantaneously cause an unlocked door or window
to fly open or slam shut.
• You alter the appearance of your eyes for 1 minute.
If you cast this spell multiple times, you can have up to
three of its 1-minute effects active at a time, and you can
dismiss such an effect as an action.

Thunderwave
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cube)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of thunderous force sweeps out from you. Each
creature in a 15-foot cube originating from you must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature takes 2d8 thunder damage and is pushed 10 feet
away from you. On a successful save, the creature takes
half as much damage and isn’t pushed.
In addition, unsecured objects that are completely
within the area of effect are automatically pushed 10 feet
away from you by the spell’s effect, and the spell emits a
thunderous boom audible out to 300 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

Web
2nd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You conjure a mass of thick, sticky webbing at a point of
your choice within range. The webs fill a 20-foot cube
from that point for the duration. The webs are difficult
terrain and lightly obscure their area.
If the webs aren’t anchored between two solid masses
(such as walls or trees) or layered across a floor, wall, or
ceiling, the conjured web collapses on itself, and the spell
ends at the start of your next turn. Webs layered over a
flat surface have a depth of 5 feet.
Each creature that starts its turn in the webs or that
enters them during its turn must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained as long
as it remains in the webs or until it breaks free.
A creature restrained by the webs can use its action to
make a Strength check against your spell save DC. If it
succeeds, it is no longer restrained.
The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot cube of webs
exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 fire
damage to any creature that starts its turn in the fire.

